The difference between working in the public and private sector, I would
say would probably be, number one, the job security. If you're a
public servant, it's very hard to get fired. That's a pretty common
meme that we always say. You'd have to do something really terrible
to be fired. You can not be promoted as much or you can get like pretty
bad jobs but once you're in the system then you don't really get
kicked out because of all the fairness laws in place. If you're in
the private sector, then you have to realize that their main goal is
to make money. That's the point of a business, to make money. So, number
one, if you're not producing, if you're in the public sector,
you just get kind of shifted around and if you're in the private sector,
you get fired. So, you have to have a better work ethic, I think.
So, for instance, in the public sector, there could be many days
that you kind of just sit around, kind of with your hands in your pocket,
especially if there's not that much work. You have high work and
low work and during low work, then you're just not expected to do
that much whereas in the private sector, they will find something for
you to do because they're paying you. Otherwise, they'll just lay
you off or something. So, it's two different reasons that you exist.
For the public, your main goal is to serve the people and they want
you to keep your job. They want to have the same workforce in play
most of the time, so it doesn't really matter how the, what the job
outlook is like. You're probably keep your job if they like your work
experience and you're just kind of, sit there whereas the private
sector, if they're doing bad, then you're doing bad and, you know,
you have to maintain a good reputation, you have to, kind of, be smart
and if you want to be promoted, then you have to, like, really show
your worth more in the private sector. However, at least in the private
sector, you get to make a lot more money. You're not on the federal
pension system, you're not on the federal salary system. So,
depending on what type of job you want to do in the private sector,
you can make lots of money. I know some people who, like, can buy a
house with the bonus that they just got, so, there's some value in that.